>> Brian Holt: So we wanna have a cart.
Right now, we have a pizza type.
We have a pepperoni that's kind of
like displays to one that you have
selected there.
Now we wanna have a cart over here where
basically people can click add to cart,
and it's not gonna just hard refresh the page right?
Go to Order.jsx.
We're going to import Cart from ./cart,
which we are going to build momentarily.
One more hook here,
const [cart setCart] = useState
other empty array and
then on the form here.
So form onSubmit,
we want to write a function here with
the event e.preventDefault().
That's probably not gonna be surprising to
anyone that's written form code before.
It prevents it from being submitted,
right?
And then we're just gonna setCart and
we're gonna say ...cart.
And then we're just gonna add
the pizza that we, they have selected.
So it's selectedpizza,
size is pizzaSize and price.
Yeah, it's bad right now because
I don't have a cart component.
That's not real yet, that's fine.
So event, we're used to that,
preventDefault.
This is another spread operator.
So the other thing we could have
done is like cart.concat, right?
And then put in that, or
cart.push would have worked as well.
This is just another way of doing
it called the spread operator.
I say like, hey,
spread the entire cart before this and
then add one more object after that.
That's all that does.
Someone might ask me, hey,
why don't you just put an onClick
here instead of a onSubmit up there?
You can, but let me tell you
why I think this is better.
What happens if you have a text input and
someone hits Enter?
What happens?
If you have just an onClick handler,
nothing happens.
And people expect when they're
on a form and they hit Enter,
that it submits the form, right?
So that's why onSubmit is better,
because it handles both of those cases.
Generally speaking, it's just more
accessible that like screen readers and
tools like that are very good
at handling form elements.
And so if you just kind of hook into
the way browsers normally work,
you get kind of all the accessibility for
free.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then just
inside the last closing div here,
we're gonna put one more thing.
We're gonna say if it's loading,
then we're gonna say h2 loading.
And if it's not loading,
then we're gonna say cart is
assigned cart cart cart, cart cart cart.
The cart component, the property that
we're gonna pass into it is the cart.
And then we need to go
build the cart after this.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so, please,
if you will, make a Cart.jsx.
Let's make another price formatter.
We might be running into
the territory of wet write thrice.
So I might end up making a function, if I
was, this was my project I might end up
making a function that like handled that,
or it could be a hook.
It doesn't have to be a hook,
but it could be a hook.
Because it's just literally
just one function.
The only thing is like, imagine if you
were doing internationalization and
you did want to switch between currencies,
you'd have to go change this in every
single place, whereas if it was one place,
you could do it.
But no one does that.
Doesn't seem like a real thing people do.
Just kidding, people do that all the time.
That was my job at Netflix.
Currency and then style.
What am I doing style is currency and
then currency is USD.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, export default
function cart.
Now I could put props here.
But you can also destructure,
because that can be fun sometimes, so
we're gonna put cart and checkout in here.
Let total = 0.
We need to tally up how
much stuff is in our cart,
so let's do that first, for let i = 0.
i is less than cart.length, i++.
And then we're just gonna say
const current = cart[i] and
total += current.pizza.sizes
[current.size].
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
>> Brian Holt: Someone might say,
hey Brian,
why don't you use a reduce here?
And to them I say, go back to Haskell.
A former Brian in a former life would have
written this as a reduce, but I realized
way later that I was writing reduces
because I thought they were fun and
not because I thought they were clear.
And so when I run into a lot of maps and
reduces and stuff like that,
I tend to just like, no, this is
probably just easier as a for loop.
It makes it more readable to not just you,
but to everyone around you.
So that is why I do not
write this as a reduce.
There's something extremely satisfying
like writing like those long chains.
But usually that satisfaction is smugness
and not actually because it's good code.
Anyway, div className="cart".
The h2 we're gonna put here is Cart and
then we're gonna do a ul
because it's an unordered list.
And then we're gonna say cart.map.
And then we're gonna do (item, index).
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna do the
forbidden thing that I told you not to do,
where we're gonna use index as the key,
why?
Because none of the things in our
cart are guaranteed unique, right?
You can have three medium pepperoni
pizzas, in which case, what would be,
there is no thing there, right?
So this is a specific case where
using the index as the key,
is what you're supposed to do
>> Brian Holt: Okay, span className
= size, item.size, and
we have three of these,
I'm gonna make that one type, so
this has to be .pizza.name, I guess.
Okay, that's fine.
And this has to be price.
So you have size, size, pizza.name,
and item.price, cool?
>> Brian Holt: Then we're
gonna do . Total is,
and we're gonna use our international
format total close that.
And then we're gonna write another button,
onClick.
Here we're gonna use OnClick
because this isn't a form.
There's nothing else to
add to the cart form.
So an OnClick here is
the correct thing to do.
And we're gonna call this checkout.
We need to go provide what
checkout is gonna do.
But you'll see this kind of passing down
of functions from parent to child fairly
frequently.
You're basically saying like,
hey component, whenever something happens,
just call me back, right?
Just call this function and
I'll take care of it.
So this cart component is kind
of a dumb component, right?
It doesn't really have much logic
unto itself, it just display stuff.
Some people will take
this to the extreme and
say like there's display components and
functional components and
they separate everything into display and
functional.
I think that is silly and I don't do it.
But someone does and they are silly.
Yeah, so we did an export default.
So that is our cart that
seems like it's working okay.
The checkout doesn't do anything yet
so this will be an undefined function.
So if you click it,
you're gonna cause an error or
we have to add a cart here or checkout.
Okay, and looks like I put
the cart in the wrong place.
Let's go figure out why
that's in the wrong place.
>> Brian Holt: But
this looks right, I think, so far.
So let's go back to order and
figure out where this was supposed to be.
CSS is easy.
I don't know if anyone told you that.
This is why this CSS is actually terrible,
because it's so
reliant on structure to
get the correct selectors.
Yeah, I just wrapped everything
here in an order page,
right there and then I put my
cart just inside that last div.
And that should get everything
all laid out nicely.
We're getting close here.
We should be able to add to cart,
okay, no?
So if I click add to cart,
>> Brian Holt: Notice
that we get stuff that
starts getting added,
the total is being generated correctly,
there's no spaces here,
which probably seems like I might have
messed up some class name somewhere.
Okay, so we're gonna, the cart page, and
just after each one of these, we're just
gonna add a dash, and that's how I made
these like separate a little bit better.